# Fundamental concepts

## Linux signal

The C standard defines only 6 signals. They are all defined as macro in ``signal.h`` header (``csignal`` header in C++):

* **SIGABRT** (Signal Abort): Abnormal termination, such as is initiated by the function.
* [SIGFPE](Working%20with%20specific%20signal.md#sigfpe) (Signal Floating-Point Exception): Erroneous arithmetic operation, such as zero divide or an operation resulting in overflow (not necessarily with a floating-point operation).
* **SIGILL** (Signal Illegal Instruction): Invalid function image, such as an illegal instruction. This is generally due to a corruption in the code or to an attempt to execute data.
* [SIGINT](Working%20with%20specific%20signal.md#sigtstp-and-sigint) (Signal Interrupt): Interactive attention signal. Generally generated by the application user, like ``Ctr+C``
* ``SIGSEGV`` (Signal Segmentation Violation): Invalid access to storage − When a program tries to read or write outside the memory it is allocated for it.
* ``SIGTERM`` (Signal Terminate): politely ask a program to terminate. Unlike [SIGKILL](Working%20with%20specific%20signal.md#sigkill), this signal can be blocked, handled, and ignored.

``Unix`` and ``Unix-like`` operating systems (such as Linux) define more than 15 additional signals. The whole supported signals are:

1. [SIGHUP](Working%20with%20specific%20signal.md#sighup-sigusr1-sigusr2-can-stop-a-process-without-signal_handler-required) can be used to stop a process without signal_handler() required.
2. [SIGINT](Working%20with%20specific%20signal.md#sigtstp-and-sigint) (Signal Interrupt)
3. **SIGQUIT**: **SIGQUIT** signal is similar to [SIGINT](Working%20with%20specific%20signal.md#sigtstp-and-sigint)
4. **SIGILL** (Signal Illegal Instruction): Invalid function image, such as an illegal instruction. This is generally due to a corruption in the code or to an attempt to execute data.
5. SIGTRAP
6. **SIGABRT** (Signal Abort): Abnormal termination, such as is initiated by the function.
7. [SIGBUS](): SIGBUS is triggered when
  * A bus error is a fault raised by hardware, notifying an operating system (OS) that a process is trying to access memory that the CPU cannot physically address.
  * Process tries to access an undefined virtual memory address. Although trying to access an undefined virtual memory address is generally considered to be a segmentation fault rather than a bus error, the processor cannot tell the difference and treats it as the SIGBUS.
8. [SIGFPE](Working%20with%20specific%20signal.md#sigfpe) (**Signal Floating-Point Exception**)
9. [SIGKILL](Working%20with%20specific%20signal.md#sigkill): immediately terminate a process, **SIGKILL** cannot be caught, handled or ignored. It is impossible to block this signal.
10. [SIGUSR1](Working%20with%20specific%20signal.md#sigusr1-and-sigusr2) (along with **SIGUSR2**) is user defined signal
11. [SIGSEGV](): Memory access violation, e.g trying to read or write from/to a memory area that your process does not have access to.
12. [SIGUSR2](Working%20with%20specific%20signal.md#sigusr1-and-sigusr2) (along with **SIGUSR1**) is user defined signal
13. SIGPIPE
14. SIGALRM
15. **SIGTERM** (Signal Terminate): politely ask a program to terminate. Unlike [SIGKILL](Working%20with%20specific%20signal.md#sigkill), this signal can be blocked, handled, and ignored.
16. SIGSTKFLT
17. [SIGCHLD](../Process/Process%20cloning/Signal%20for%20fork().md#sigchld): When a child process stops or terminates, SIGCHLD is sent to the parent process.=  
18. [SIGSTOP](../Process/system()%20for%20a%20process%20with%20infinite%20loop%20in%20the%20background.md#stop%20child_process%20by%20SIGSTOP%20and%20continue%20it%20by%20SIGCONT): **SIGSTOP** will stop/suspend a process. **SIGCONT** will let that process continue from the state where it is stopped. Implementation: [Stop a process by SIGSTOP and continue it by SIGCONT from another process](../Process/system()%20for%20a%20process%20with%20infinite%20loop%20in%20the%20background.md#stop-child_process-by-sigstop-and-continue-it-by-sigcont)
19. [SIGCONT](../Process/system()%20for%20a%20process%20with%20infinite%20loop%20in%20the%20background.md#stop%20child_process%20by%20SIGSTOP%20and%20continue%20it%20by%20SIGCONT): **SIGCONT** will continue the process continue from the state where it is stopped by **SIGSTOP**. Implementation: [Stop a process by SIGSTOP and continue it by SIGCONT from another process](../Process/system()%20for%20a%20process%20with%20infinite%20loop%20in%20the%20background.md#stop-child_process-by-sigstop-and-continue-it-by-sigcont)
20. [SIGTSTP](Working%20with%20specific%20signal.md#sigtstp-and-sigint): Stop a process, mapped to **Ctr+Z**
21. [SIGTTIN](Working%20with%20specific%20signals.md#sigttin): When a background job tries to read from its current terminal, SIGTTIN will be triggered
22. [SIGTTOU](Working%20with%20specific%20signals.md#sigttou): When a background job tries to write from its current terminal and the current terminal has flag ``TOSTOP`` set, SIGTTOU will be triggered
23. SIGURG
24. SIGXCPU
25. SIGXFSZ
26. SIGVTALRM
27. SIGPROF 
28. [SIGWINCH](Working%20with%20specific%20signal.md#sigwinch): a signal sent upon the resizing of a window. When the number of columns or rows changes, **SIGWINCH** is raised to the foreground processes attached to the terminal.
29. SIGIO
30. SIGPWR
31. SIGSYS	34) SIGRTMIN	35) SIGRTMIN+1	36) SIGRTMIN+2	37) SIGRTMIN+3
38. SIGRTMIN+4	39) SIGRTMIN+5	40) SIGRTMIN+6	41) SIGRTMIN+7	42) SIGRTMIN+8
43. SIGRTMIN+9	44) SIGRTMIN+10	45) SIGRTMIN+11	46) SIGRTMIN+12	47) SIGRTMIN+13
48. SIGRTMIN+14	49) SIGRTMIN+15	50) SIGRTMAX-14	51) SIGRTMAX-13	52) SIGRTMAX-12
53. SIGRTMAX-11	54) SIGRTMAX-10	55) SIGRTMAX-9	56) SIGRTMAX-8	57) SIGRTMAX-7
58. SIGRTMAX-6	59) SIGRTMAX-5	60) SIGRTMAX-4
61. SIGRTMAX-3	62) SIGRTMAX-2 63) SIGRTMAX-1	64) SIGRTMAX
    
## Implementation

* **Blocking Signals**: Blocking a signal means telling the operating system to hold it and deliver it later. 
* **Signal mask**: The collection of signals that are currently blocked is called the signal mask.
* **Signal set**: All of the signal blocking functions use a data structure called a signal set (``sigset_t``) to specify what signals are affected.

Implementations include:
* [IPC by signal](IPC%20by%20signal.md)
* [Process signal mask](Process%20signal%20mask.md)
* [Stopping and interrupting signals](): SIGTSTP, SIGINT and SIGKILL; SIGHUP, SIGUSR1, SIGUSR2 can stop a process without ``signal_handler()``
* [Working with specific signals](Working%20with%20specific%20signals.md)

# [API](API.md)

All signals are defined in library ``signal.h`` in C Standard Library.

* [kill()]()
* [signal()]()
* [sigaction()]()
* [sigqueue()]()
* [sigprocmask()]()
* [pause()]()
